Edits to caching docs plus keyArgs article (#9370)
apollographql/apollo-client: docs/source/pagination/key-args.mdx

---
title: Key arguments in Apollo Client
description: Using the keyArgs API
sidebar_title: keyArgs
---

> We recommend reading [Core pagination API](./core-api) before learning about considerations specific to `keyArgs` configuration.

The Apollo Client cache can store multiple entries for a single schema field. By default, each entry corresponds to a different set of values for the field's arguments.

For example, consider this `Query.user` field:

```graphql{3}
type Query {
  # Returns whichever User object corresponds to `id`
  user(id: ID!): User
}
```

If we query for `User`s with `id`s `1` and `2`, the Apollo Client cache stores entries for _both_ like so:

```yaml{3,6}:title=Cache
ROOT_QUERY

  user({"id":"1"}):
    __ref: "User:1"

  user({"id":"2"}):
    __ref: "User:2"

> ```

Reviewer: Since these data are meant to be JSON-serializable, I think it might make more sense to use either JS or JSON notation here (curly braces and quoted object keys). The YAML is a bit surprising.

Author: Sounds good, this syntax seemed the closest to reflecting the Devtools presentation of cached objects but will happily convert to JSON

Author: ok technically going with JS object notation so the object key delineators can be single-quotes so I don't need a bunch of escaped double-quotes in the actual key value which will just look messy

Consider this `Query.feed` field:

```graphql{2}
type Query {
  feed(offset: Int, limit: Int, category: Category): [FeedItem!]
}
```

The `offset` and `limit` arguments enable a client to specify which "page" of the feed it wants to fetch. In an app with an infinitely scrolling feed, the client might initially fetch the first ten items, then fetch the _next_ ten:

```graphql
# First query
query GetFeedItems {
  feed(offset: 0, limit: 10, category: "SPORTS")
}

# Second query
query GetFeedItems {
  feed(offset: 10, limit: 10, category: "SPORTS")
}
```

But because their argument values differ, these two lists of ten items are cached _separately_ by default. This means that when the second query completes, the returned items _aren't_ appended to the original list in the feed!

```yaml:title=Cache
ROOT_QUERY

  feed({"offset":"0","limit":"10","category":"SPORTS"}):
    [...]

  feed({"offset":"10","limit":"10","category":"SPORTS"}):
    [...]
```

In this case, we _don't_ want `offset` or `limit` to be included in a cache entry's storage key. Instead, we want the cache to _merge_ the results of the two above queries into a single cache entry that includes the items from both lists.

> To help handle this case, we can [set key arguments](#setting-key-args) for the field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help handle this case, we can [set `keyArgs`](#setting-keyargs) for the field.
```

```yaml:title=Cache
ROOT_QUERY

  feed({"offset":"0","limit":"10","category":"SPORTS"}):
    [...]

  feed({"offset":"10","limit":"10","category":"SPORTS"}):
    [...]
```

You can override this default behavior by defining a cache [field policy](../caching/cache-field-behavior) for a particular field:

```js{5-7}
const cache = new InMemoryCache({
  typePolicies: {
    Query: {
      fields: {
        feed: {
          keyArgs: ["category"],
        },
      },
    },
  },
});
```

This field policy for `Query.feed` includes a `keyArgs` array, which contains the names of all arguments that the cache _should_ include in its storage keys.

In this case, we don't want the cache to treat `offset` or `limit` as key arguments, because those arguments don't change _which_ list we're fetching from. However, we _do_ want to treat `category` as a key argument, because we want to store our `SPORTS` feed separately from other feeds (such as `FASHION` or `MUSIC`).

After setting `keyArgs` as shown, cache entries for `Query.feed` look like this (note the absence of `offset` and `limit`):

```yaml:title=Cache
ROOT_QUERY

  feed({"category":"SPORTS"}):

>     [...]

Reviewer: Rather than just `[...]`, could we use this syntax to show somehow that multiple pages of `SPORTS` items have been merged into one list?

        feed: {
          keyArgs: false,

>           read(existing = {}, { args: { offset, limit, category }}) {
>             return existing[category] &&
>               existing[type].slice(offset, offset + limit);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          read(existing = {}, { args: { offset, limit, category }}) {
            return existing[category]?.slice(offset, offset + limit);
```
The `existing[type]` should be `existing[category]`, but we can also shorten things with the `?.` optional chaining operator, if you like.
